steering/distributed/POWER.md, before:

---
name: "aurora-dsql"
displayName: "Build a database with Aurora DSQL"
description: "Build and deploy a PostgreSQL-compatible serverless distributed SQL database with Aurora DSQL - manage schemas, execute queries, and handle migrations with DSQL-specific requirements."
keywords: ["aurora", "dsql", "postgresql", "serverless", "database", "sql", "aws", "distributed"]
author: "AWS"
---

# Amazon Aurora DSQL Power

## Overview

The Amazon Aurora DSQL Power provides access to Aurora DSQL, a serverless, PostgreSQL-compatible distributed SQL database with specific constraints and capabilities. Execute queries, manage schemas, handle migrations, and work with multi-tenant data while respecting DSQL's unique limitations.

Aurora DSQL is a true serverless database with scale-to-zero capability, zero operations overhead, and consumption-based pricing. It uses the PostgreSQL wire protocol but has specific limitations around foreign keys, array types, JSON columns, and transaction sizes.

**Key capabilities:**
- **Direct Query Execution**: Run SQL queries directly against your DSQL cluster
- **Schema Management**: Create tables, indexes, and manage DDL operations
- **Migration Support**: Execute schema migrations with DSQL constraints
- **Multi-Tenant Patterns**: Built-in tenant isolation and data scoping
- **Authentication**: Uses AWS IAM credentials with automatic token generation.

## Available Steering Files

This power includes the following steering files in [steering](./steering)
- **development-guide** - DSQL Guidelines and Operational Rules (always loaded)
- **dsql-examples** - Code examples and implementation patterns (load when implementing)
- **language** - Language-based implementation examples and references (load when implementing)
- **troubleshooting** - Common pitfalls and errors and how to solve (load when debugging an error)
- **onboarding** - Interactive "Get Started with DSQL" guide for onboarding users step-by-step

## Available MCP Servers

### aurora-dsql
**Package:** `awslabs.aurora-dsql-mcp-server@latest`
**Connection:** uvx-based MCP server
**Authentication:** AWS IAM credentials with automatic token generation

**Configuration Required:**
- `CLUSTER` - Your DSQL cluster identifier
- `REGION` - AWS region (e.g., us-east-1)
- `AWS_PROFILE` - AWS CLI profile name (optional, uses default if not set)

**Tools:**

1. **query** - Execute SQL queries against Aurora DSQL
   - Required: `sql` (string) - SQL query to execute
   - Optional: `parameters` (array) - Parameterized query values
   - Returns: Query results with rows and metadata
   - Use for: SELECT queries, data exploration, ad-hoc analysis

2. **execute** - Execute SQL statements (DDL/DML)
   - Required: `sql` (string) - SQL statement to execute
   - Optional: `parameters` (array) - Parameterized values
   - Returns: Execution result with affected rows
   - Use for: INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, CREATE TABLE, ALTER TABLE

3. **list_tables** - List all tables in the database
   - Optional: `schema` (string) - Schema name (default: public)
   - Returns: Array of table names
   - Use for: Schema exploration, validation

4. **describe_table** - Get table schema details
   - Required: `table_name` (string) - Name of table to describe
   - Optional: `schema` (string) - Schema name (default: public)
   - Returns: Column definitions, types, constraints, indexes
   - Use for: Understanding table structure, planning migrations

### aws-core (Optional)
**Package:** `awslabs.core-mcp-server@latest`
**Connection:** uvx-based MCP server
**Authentication:** AWS IAM credentials

Provides additional AWS context and documentation access for DSQL operations.


## Tool Usage Examples

### Querying Data

**Simple SELECT query:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT * FROM entities WHERE tenant_id = $1 LIMIT 10",
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})
// Returns: { rows: [...], rowCount: 10 }
```

**Aggregate query:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT tenant_id, COUNT(*) as count FROM objectives GROUP BY tenant_id"
})
```

**Join query:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": `
    SELECT e.entity_id, e.name, o.title
    FROM entities e
    INNER JOIN objectives o ON e.entity_id = o.entity_id
    WHERE e.tenant_id = $1
  `,
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})
```

### Schema Operations

**Create table with proper DSQL types:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS entities (
      entity_id VARCHAR(255) PRIMARY KEY,
      tenant_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      tags TEXT,
      metadata TEXT,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `
})
```

**Create async index (REQUIRED):**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_tenant ON entities(tenant_id)"
})
```

**Add column (one at a time):**
```javascript
// Step 1: Add column
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "ALTER TABLE entities ADD COLUMN status VARCHAR(50)"
})

// Step 2: Set default values
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "UPDATE entities SET status = 'active' WHERE status IS NULL"
})
```

### Data Manipulation

**Insert with tenant isolation:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    INSERT INTO entities (entity_id, tenant_id, name, tags)
    VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4)
  `,
  "parameters": ["entity-456", "tenant-123", "My Entity", "tag1,tag2,tag3"]
})
```

**Batch update:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    UPDATE entities
    SET status = 'archived', updated_at = CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    WHERE tenant_id = $1 AND created_at < $2
  `,
  "parameters": ["tenant-123", "2024-01-01"]
})
```

**Delete with validation:**
```javascript
// First check for dependents
const dependents = await usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM objectives WHERE entity_id = $1 AND tenant_id = $2",
  "parameters": ["entity-456", "tenant-123"]
})

// Then delete if safe
if (dependents.rows[0].count === 0) {
  usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
    "sql": "DELETE FROM entities WHERE entity_id = $1 AND tenant_id = $2",
    "parameters": ["entity-456", "tenant-123"]
  })
}
```

### Schema Exploration

**List all tables:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "list_tables", {})
// Returns: ["entities", "objectives", "key_results", ...]
```

**Describe table structure:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "describe_table", {
  "table_name": "entities"
})
// Returns: { columns: [...], indexes: [...], constraints: [...] }
```

## Combining Tools (Workflows)

### Workflow 1: Create Multi-Tenant Schema

```javascript
// Step 1: Create main table
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS entities (
      entity_id VARCHAR(255) PRIMARY KEY,
      tenant_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `
})

// Step 2: Create tenant index (ASYNC required)
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_tenant ON entities(tenant_id)"
})

// Step 3: Create composite index for common queries
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_tenant_created ON entities(tenant_id, created_at DESC)"
})

// Step 4: Verify schema
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "describe_table", {
  "table_name": "entities"
})
```

### Workflow 2: Safe Data Migration

```javascript
// Step 1: Add new column
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "ALTER TABLE entities ADD COLUMN status VARCHAR(50)"
})

// Step 2: Populate with default (in batches if needed)
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "UPDATE entities SET status = 'active' WHERE status IS NULL AND tenant_id = $1",
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})

// Step 3: Verify migration
const result = await usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT COUNT(*) as total, COUNT(status) as with_status FROM entities WHERE tenant_id = $1",
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})

// Step 4: Create index for new column
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_status ON entities(tenant_id, status)"
})
```

### Workflow 3: Application-Layer Foreign Key Validation

```javascript
// Step 1: Validate parent exists
const parent = await usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT entity_id FROM entities WHERE entity_id = $1 AND tenant_id = $2",
  "parameters": ["parent-123", "tenant-123"]
})

if (parent.rows.length === 0) {
  throw new Error("Invalid parent reference")
}

// Step 2: Insert child record
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    INSERT INTO objectives (objective_id, entity_id, tenant_id, title)
    VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4)
  `,
  "parameters": ["obj-456", "parent-123", "tenant-123", "My Objective"]
})
```

## Configuration

**Authentication Required**: AWS IAM credentials

**Environment Variables:**
- `CLUSTER` - Your DSQL cluster identifier (e.g., "abc123def456")
- `REGION` - AWS region (e.g., "us-east-1")
- `AWS_PROFILE` - AWS CLI profile (optional, uses default if not set)

**Setup Steps:**
1. Create Aurora DSQL cluster in AWS Console
2. Note your cluster identifier from the console
3. Ensure AWS credentials are configured (`aws configure`)
4. Install this power and configure environment variables
5. Test connection with `list_tables` tool

**Permissions Required:**
- `dsql:DbConnect` - Connect to DSQL cluster
- `dsql:DbConnectAdmin` - Admin access for DDL operations

**Database Name**: Always use `postgres` (only database available in DSQL)

## Best Practices

- **SHOULD read guidelines first** - Check [development_guide.md](steering/development-guide.md) before making schema changes
- **SHOULD Execute queries directly** - PREFER MCP tools for ad-hoc queries 
- **REQUIRED: Follow DDL Guidelines** - Refer to [DDL Rules](steering/development-guide.md#schema-ddl-rules)
- **SHALL repeatedly generate fresh tokens** - Refer to [Connection Limits](steering/development-guide.md#connection-rules)
- **ALWAYS use ASYNC indexes** - `CREATE INDEX ASYNC` is mandatory
- **ALWAYS validate references in code** - implement referential integrity at the application layer 
- **MUST Serialize arrays/JSON as TEXT** - Store arrays/JSON as TEXT (comma separated, JSON.stringify)
- **ALWAYS Include tenant_id everywhere** - First parameter in all queries for isolation
- **ALWAYS Batch under 3,000 rows** - maintain transaction limits
- **REQUIRED: Use parameterized queries** - Prevent SQL injection with $1, $2 placeholders
- **ALWAYS Check dependents before delete** - Implement cascade logic in application
- **REQUIRED use DELETE for truncation** - DELETE is the only supported operation for truncation
- **SHOULD test any migrations** - Verify DDL on dev clusters before production
- **SHOULD use partial indexes** - For sparse data with WHERE clauses
- **Plan for Scale** - DSQL is designed to optimize for massive scales without latency drops
- **Plan for Scale** - DSQL is designed to optimize for massive scales without latency drops
- **SHOULD use connection pooling in production applications** - Refer to [Connection Pooling](steering/development-guide.md#connection-pooling-recommended)
- **SHOULD debug with the troubleshooting guide:** - Always refer to the resources and guidelines in [troubleshooting.md](steering/troubleshooting.md)

## Additional Resources

- [Aurora DSQL Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/)
- [Aurora DSQL Starter Kit](https://github.com/awslabs/aurora-dsql-starter-kit/tree/main)
- [Code Samples Repository](https://github.com/aws-samples/aurora-dsql-samples)
- [IAM Authentication Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/using-database-and-iam-roles.html)
- [Getting Started Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/getting-started.html)
- [What Comaptibility DSQL Supports with PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/working-with-postgresql-compatibility.html)
- [Incompatible Postgres Features](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/working-with-postgresql-compatibility-unsupported-features.html)
- [CloudFormation Resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-dsql-cluster.html)

Commit message:

Fix best practices and application layer patterns
Removed unneeded or incorrect best practices that aren't truly
universal. Point all application layer patterns to the complete
section instead so the Agent can know when to refer to it still.
Include reference to the section as a single bullet in the best
practices that addresses multi-tenant isolation AND application
layer referential integrity for constraints that users may have.

steering/distributed/POWER.md, after:

---
name: "aurora-dsql"
displayName: "Build a database with Aurora DSQL"
description: "Build and deploy a PostgreSQL-compatible serverless distributed SQL database with Aurora DSQL - manage schemas, execute queries, and handle migrations with DSQL-specific requirements."
keywords: ["aurora", "dsql", "postgresql", "serverless", "database", "sql", "aws", "distributed"]
author: "AWS"
---

# Amazon Aurora DSQL Power

## Overview

The Amazon Aurora DSQL Power provides access to Aurora DSQL, a serverless, PostgreSQL-compatible distributed SQL database with specific constraints and capabilities. Execute queries, manage schemas, handle migrations, and work with multi-tenant data while respecting DSQL's unique limitations.

Aurora DSQL is a true serverless database with scale-to-zero capability, zero operations overhead, and consumption-based pricing. It uses the PostgreSQL wire protocol but has specific limitations around foreign keys, array types, JSON columns, and transaction sizes.

**Key capabilities:**
- **Direct Query Execution**: Run SQL queries directly against your DSQL cluster
- **Schema Management**: Create tables, indexes, and manage DDL operations
- **Migration Support**: Execute schema migrations with DSQL constraints
- **Multi-Tenant Patterns**: Built-in tenant isolation and data scoping
- **Authentication**: Uses AWS IAM credentials with automatic token generation.

## Available Steering Files

This power includes the following steering files in [steering](./steering)
- **development-guide** - DSQL Guidelines and Operational Rules (always loaded)
- **dsql-examples** - Code examples and implementation patterns (load when implementing)
- **language** - Language-based implementation examples and references (load when implementing)
- **troubleshooting** - Common pitfalls and errors and how to solve (load when debugging an error)
- **onboarding** - Interactive "Get Started with DSQL" guide for onboarding users step-by-step

## Available MCP Servers

### aurora-dsql
**Package:** `awslabs.aurora-dsql-mcp-server@latest`
**Connection:** uvx-based MCP server
**Authentication:** AWS IAM credentials with automatic token generation

**Configuration Required:**
- `CLUSTER` - Your DSQL cluster identifier
- `REGION` - AWS region (e.g., us-east-1)
- `AWS_PROFILE` - AWS CLI profile name (optional, uses default if not set)

**Tools:**

1. **query** - Execute SQL queries against Aurora DSQL
   - Required: `sql` (string) - SQL query to execute
   - Optional: `parameters` (array) - Parameterized query values
   - Returns: Query results with rows and metadata
   - Use for: SELECT queries, data exploration, ad-hoc analysis

2. **execute** - Execute SQL statements (DDL/DML)
   - Required: `sql` (string) - SQL statement to execute
   - Optional: `parameters` (array) - Parameterized values
   - Returns: Execution result with affected rows
   - Use for: INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, CREATE TABLE, ALTER TABLE

3. **list_tables** - List all tables in the database
   - Optional: `schema` (string) - Schema name (default: public)
   - Returns: Array of table names
   - Use for: Schema exploration, validation

4. **describe_table** - Get table schema details
   - Required: `table_name` (string) - Name of table to describe
   - Optional: `schema` (string) - Schema name (default: public)
   - Returns: Column definitions, types, constraints, indexes
   - Use for: Understanding table structure, planning migrations

### aws-core (Optional)
**Package:** `awslabs.core-mcp-server@latest`
**Connection:** uvx-based MCP server
**Authentication:** AWS IAM credentials

Provides additional AWS context and documentation access for DSQL operations.


## Tool Usage Examples

### Querying Data

**Simple SELECT query:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT * FROM entities WHERE tenant_id = $1 LIMIT 10",
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})
// Returns: { rows: [...], rowCount: 10 }
```

**Aggregate query:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT tenant_id, COUNT(*) as count FROM objectives GROUP BY tenant_id"
})
```

**Join query:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": `
    SELECT e.entity_id, e.name, o.title
    FROM entities e
    INNER JOIN objectives o ON e.entity_id = o.entity_id
    WHERE e.tenant_id = $1
  `,
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})
```

### Schema Operations

**Create table with proper DSQL types:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS entities (
      entity_id VARCHAR(255) PRIMARY KEY,
      tenant_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      tags TEXT,
      metadata TEXT,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `
})
```

**Create async index (REQUIRED):**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_tenant ON entities(tenant_id)"
})
```

**Add column (one at a time):**
```javascript
// Step 1: Add column
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "ALTER TABLE entities ADD COLUMN status VARCHAR(50)"
})

// Step 2: Set default values
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "UPDATE entities SET status = 'active' WHERE status IS NULL"
})
```

### Data Manipulation

**Insert with tenant isolation:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    INSERT INTO entities (entity_id, tenant_id, name, tags)
    VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4)
  `,
  "parameters": ["entity-456", "tenant-123", "My Entity", "tag1,tag2,tag3"]
})
```

**Batch update:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    UPDATE entities
    SET status = 'archived', updated_at = CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    WHERE tenant_id = $1 AND created_at < $2
  `,
  "parameters": ["tenant-123", "2024-01-01"]
})
```

**Delete with validation:**
```javascript
// First check for dependents
const dependents = await usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT COUNT(*) FROM objectives WHERE entity_id = $1 AND tenant_id = $2",
  "parameters": ["entity-456", "tenant-123"]
})

// Then delete if safe
if (dependents.rows[0].count === 0) {
  usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
    "sql": "DELETE FROM entities WHERE entity_id = $1 AND tenant_id = $2",
    "parameters": ["entity-456", "tenant-123"]
  })
}
```

### Schema Exploration

**List all tables:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "list_tables", {})
// Returns: ["entities", "objectives", "key_results", ...]
```

**Describe table structure:**
```javascript
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "describe_table", {
  "table_name": "entities"
})
// Returns: { columns: [...], indexes: [...], constraints: [...] }
```

## Combining Tools (Workflows)

### Workflow 1: Create Multi-Tenant Schema

```javascript
// Step 1: Create main table
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS entities (
      entity_id VARCHAR(255) PRIMARY KEY,
      tenant_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `
})

// Step 2: Create tenant index (ASYNC required)
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_tenant ON entities(tenant_id)"
})

// Step 3: Create composite index for common queries
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_tenant_created ON entities(tenant_id, created_at DESC)"
})

// Step 4: Verify schema
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "describe_table", {
  "table_name": "entities"
})
```

### Workflow 2: Safe Data Migration

```javascript
// Step 1: Add new column
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "ALTER TABLE entities ADD COLUMN status VARCHAR(50)"
})

// Step 2: Populate with default (in batches if needed)
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "UPDATE entities SET status = 'active' WHERE status IS NULL AND tenant_id = $1",
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})

// Step 3: Verify migration
const result = await usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT COUNT(*) as total, COUNT(status) as with_status FROM entities WHERE tenant_id = $1",
  "parameters": ["tenant-123"]
})

// Step 4: Create index for new column
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": "CREATE INDEX ASYNC idx_entities_status ON entities(tenant_id, status)"
})
```

### Workflow 3: Application-Layer Foreign Key Validation

```javascript
// Step 1: Validate parent exists
const parent = await usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "query", {
  "sql": "SELECT entity_id FROM entities WHERE entity_id = $1 AND tenant_id = $2",
  "parameters": ["parent-123", "tenant-123"]
})

if (parent.rows.length === 0) {
  throw new Error("Invalid parent reference")
}

// Step 2: Insert child record
usePower("dsql", "aurora-dsql", "execute", {
  "sql": `
    INSERT INTO objectives (objective_id, entity_id, tenant_id, title)
    VALUES ($1, $2, $3, $4)
  `,
  "parameters": ["obj-456", "parent-123", "tenant-123", "My Objective"]
})
```

## Configuration

**Authentication Required**: AWS IAM credentials

**Environment Variables:**
- `CLUSTER` - Your DSQL cluster identifier (e.g., "abc123def456")
- `REGION` - AWS region (e.g., "us-east-1")
- `AWS_PROFILE` - AWS CLI profile (optional, uses default if not set)

**Setup Steps:**
1. Create Aurora DSQL cluster in AWS Console
2. Note your cluster identifier from the console
3. Ensure AWS credentials are configured (`aws configure`)
4. Install this power and configure environment variables
5. Test connection with `list_tables` tool

**Permissions Required:**
- `dsql:DbConnect` - Connect to DSQL cluster
- `dsql:DbConnectAdmin` - Admin access for DDL operations

**Database Name**: Always use `postgres` (only database available in DSQL)

## Best Practices

- **SHOULD read guidelines first** - Check [development_guide.md](steering/development-guide.md) before making schema changes
- **SHOULD Execute queries directly** - PREFER MCP tools for ad-hoc queries 
- **REQUIRED: Follow DDL Guidelines** - Refer to [DDL Rules](steering/development-guide.md#schema-ddl-rules)
- **SHALL repeatedly generate fresh tokens** - Refer to [Connection Limits](steering/development-guide.md#connection-rules)
- **ALWAYS use ASYNC indexes** - `CREATE INDEX ASYNC` is mandatory
- **MUST Serialize arrays/JSON as TEXT** - Store arrays/JSON as TEXT (comma separated, JSON.stringify)
- **ALWAYS Batch under 3,000 rows** - maintain transaction limits
- **REQUIRED: Use parameterized queries** - Prevent SQL injection with $1, $2 placeholders
- **MUST follow correct Application Layer Patterns** - when multi-tenant isolation or application referential itegrity are required; refer to [Application Layer Patterns](steering/development-guide.md#application-layer-patterns)
- **REQUIRED use DELETE for truncation** - DELETE is the only supported operation for truncation
- **SHOULD test any migrations** - Verify DDL on dev clusters before production
- **SHOULD use partial indexes** - For sparse data with WHERE clauses
- **Plan for Scale** - DSQL is designed to optimize for massive scales without latency drops
- **SHOULD use connection pooling in production applications** - Refer to [Connection Pooling](steering/development-guide.md#connection-pooling-recommended)
- **SHOULD debug with the troubleshooting guide:** - Always refer to the resources and guidelines in [troubleshooting.md](steering/troubleshooting.md)

## Additional Resources

- [Aurora DSQL Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/)
- [Aurora DSQL Starter Kit](https://github.com/awslabs/aurora-dsql-starter-kit/tree/main)
- [Code Samples Repository](https://github.com/aws-samples/aurora-dsql-samples)
- [IAM Authentication Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/using-database-and-iam-roles.html)
- [Getting Started Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/getting-started.html)
- [What Comaptibility DSQL Supports with PostgreSQL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/working-with-postgresql-compatibility.html)
- [Incompatible Postgres Features](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aurora-dsql/latest/userguide/working-with-postgresql-compatibility-unsupported-features.html)
- [CloudFormation Resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-dsql-cluster.html)
